---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/locations/countries/valla/luirathal/","created":"2026-01-31T12:09:26.030-08:00","updated":"2026-01-31T12:10:59.182-08:00"}
---

More commonly known at the Forest of Lights, or some near moniker, Lúirathal is a massive forest spanning nearly the entire region, and spilling over into Verra to nearly cover the sister state as well, though the trees seem to have more variation and have been stunted. The meaning of Lúirathal, is nearer to "trees, or forest, or grove, touched by light -- or the gods -- in some translation (light and the gods are nearly related in Vallan culture, and with these spectacular trees all around them, it's not hard to see why). The trees, in some cases, seem to brush the bottoms of the clouds, and their bark is like crystal that glimmers like gold in the sunlight, and glows with a pale white light in darkness, the effect at night is stronger in the presence of the moon.

The forest itself, at least on the Vallan side, spans literally thousands of square miles, and the trees are considered sacred. No tool is ever to touch trees, which leaves many of the tradesmen at quite the disadvantage, and makes the numerous cities suspended among the trees, seemingly wrought from the very trees around them, a mystery to most outsiders, but to the Vallan it is well known that the trees are shaped by the Ilúirneth, Lúir Wives or Tree Wives, women venerated among the priestesses of Ishtariel to tend the sacred Lúirathal. The Ilúirneth are able to shape many types of trees, in actuality, but they primarily work with the Lúirathal, and are the only ones that can tame or bend their shape. Their greatest accomplishment being the Arbor of Lights, Lúithelas, which is the capital and the single largest city, spun on what seems like lúir wood made into lace, suspended between three of the largest Lúirathal in the forest. For all the city's intricate and delicate lines, the city is seemingly as solid as if it built on the rock.

Lúithelas is home the single greatest population of elves, which has boomed slightly with the upcoming generations of elves, but is not enough to fill every city in the forest.