---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/welcome-to-the-world-of-alar/","tags":["gardenEntry"]}
---

Alar is a large sprawling world that has a feel of ancient wonders around every corner, juxtaposed with the newness of rediscovery. For 200 years, the peoples of Alar have been reclaiming their past, while forging into the future, in their own ways. 

Allow me to explain, 200 some years ago, the powers of darkness reigned over this mortal coil. Demons, spiritual beings made manifest in our world, conquered the globe about 300 years ago by conservative estimates, though due to the unreliability of the sources at hand, estimates range wildly from thousands of years to a mere handful of decades. Which brings us to the Dawnbreak -- the advent of magic -- a gift of the gods to fight off the demons. And an effective gift it was, The Dawnbreak Campaign lasted ten years, and ended in the triumphant defeat and subsequent sealing of Oth'Amon, the Cataclysm, Lord of Evil, Despoiler of Truth. 

However, sealing away the Lord of the Abyss was a short-lived triumph, for it came at a high price. The demons and their hoards of demon-spawn could see the tide turning against them, and though they fought tooth and nail to spot it, but schemed upon contingencies that would cripple any new age to succeed them. Collectively this amalgam of events is called The Darkening, though it came is several iterations. First, demons went hunting for the long-lived races of the realm, scouring them from existence for their long memories. At first they were very successful, since the people of Alar were not expecting such a vehement assault on what initially seemed non-key targets. When the armies of Alar rallied to protect what they could of their Elvish, Dwarven, and Gnomish brothers, the demons changed tactics. 

Next, they targeted repositories of knowledge: libraries, collections, schools, historical sights. Anything that could be tied to historical references was destroyed that could be, or stolen if possible. Again the Armies of the Dawn moved to protect what was left as they could, and found success. But one demon in particular, who managed to not only orchestrate something truly heinous, and insult on injury, but scrub its name from all memory, wove a magic so pervasive and far-reaching that even those that had no spark of The Arcane in them were able to feel its touch as it was cast. This third and final event is largely known as the Clouding. Some act by The Profane that targeted the memories of all living in Alar, scrubbing all knowledge of this particular dark spirit from the world, and worse yet, confusing, twisting, and purging the memories of all elves, dwarves, and gnomes. 